---
typora-root-url: ..
typora-copy-images-to: ../assets/images
layout: post
title: RTD129X Unbrick
lang: en
lang-ref: rtd129x-unbrick
category: NAS
tags: [nas,rtd129x,rtd1295,rtd1296,zidoo,z9s,z10,uart,ttl,unbrick]
---

## Unbrick with TTL/UART

First of all, we should be able to connect to the UART.（Refer [this](/nas/2020/07/07/z9s-dev.html) if you are working with Z9S/Z10）

### Restore FWTABLE Signature

If you get stuck when flash before, it is likely that the signature of fwtable (similar to the partition table) is destroyed, and the machine can no longer be flashed. In this case, just restore the fwtable signature.

1. Shutdown the device

2. Connect UART, then hold the **ESC** key in the terminal and turn the device on, until the terminal displays `*** ESC Pressed ***` (may not be the last line) or when the terminal is no longer scrolling, then release the **ESC** key. At this time, press the **Enter** key several times it should displays `Realtek>`

3. Execution `help` in terminal, will display all supported commands, confirm whether they are included `rtkemmc`, `dw` and `mw`, if not, do not continue

4. Execution `rtkemmc read 0x03000000 12544 512` in terminal, it will load the header of fwtable to memory

5. Execution `dw 0x03000000 8`. If it says `43534552 5f5f4555`, goto next step; If it says `4f524556 5f5f414e`, it means that the signature of fwtable is ok, we don't need to touch it, we should try **Unbrick with UART + U Disk**, do not continue next step; If not either of both, I don’t know what’s going on, do not continue

6. Execution `mw 0x03000000 0x4f524556`

7. Execution `mw 0x03000004 0x5f5f414e`

8. Execution `dw 0x03000000 8`. It should displays `4f524556 5f5f414e`

9. Execution `rtkemmc write 0x03000000 12544 512`, it will write back the header to fwtable

10. Shutdown

Signature of fwtable was restored, now we can follow the official guide to flash th device. If it still fail in flashing, then try the **Unbrick with UART + U Disk**


### Unbrick with UART + U Disk
Usually you can use this method to restore the firmware, unless uBoot is broken.

Prepare a U disk with 2GB or more space, if it is not in FAT32 format, format it as FAT32.

Download the [udisk_recovery.zip](/assets/files/udisk_recovery.zip) and unpack it to the root directory of the U disk.

If you can get to this point, you must have tried the official flash tutorial (such as [X9S](https://www.zidoo.tv/Support/support_guide/guide_target/1vhOLOoLZ3NKKmVViAFMcQ%3D%3D.html), [Z9S](https://www.zidoo.tv/Support/support_guide/guide_target/GAi8Kohb5eLeq7k9e%5Bld%5D3ulg%3D%3D.html) ), I believe you already have `install.img`, now put it to the root directory of the U disk.

We should have at least these files in the root directory of the U disk:

* bluecore.audio
* emmc.uImage
* rescue.emmc.dtb
* rescue.root.emmc.cpio.gz_pad.img
* install.img

The U disk is ready.

Flash process：

1. Shutdown the device and plug in the U disk

2. Connect UART, then hold the **ESC** key in the terminal and turn the device on, until the terminal displays `*** ESC Pressed ***` (may not be the last line) or when the terminal is no longer scrolling, then release the **ESC** key. At this time, press the **Enter** key several times it should displays `Realtek>`

3. Execution `help` in terminal, will display all supported commands, confirm whether they are included `usb`, `fatload` and `boot`, if not, do not continue

4. Execution `usb start`, this step enables USB and scans the device, it will take a few seconds, and it will display `Realtek>` on finished. Check if there is any `Storage Device(s)` found in the output. If not, change the USB slot and perform this step again

5. Execution these commands **One By One**:

   ```powershell
   fatload usb 0:1 0x01b00000 bluecore.audio
   fatload usb 0:1 0x03000000 emmc.uImage
   fatload usb 0:1 0x02100000 rescue.emmc.dtb
   fatload usb 0:1 0x02200000 rescue.root.emmc.cpio.gz_pad.img
   ```

   If there was any error, change `0:1` to `0:2` `0:3` or `0:4` and try again, depending on the partition of the U disk

6. Execution `boot all`, the flashing will start soon without superise


### Flash UBOOT with UART
If in the previous schemes, the `Realtek>` dit not even displayed, either you have plugged in the TX/RX backwards, or uBoot was broken. If you just follow the official tutorial to flash or OTA before, uBoot should not be broken.

Refer [https://bbs.nas66.com/thread-5553-1-1.html](https://bbs.nas66.com/thread-5553-1-1.html) to flash uBoot.

It should be noted that the `dvrboot.exe.bin` and the `hwsetting.config` mentioned in the tutorial is not the only one. Different devices or different functions may not use the same one `dvrboot.exe.bin`.

Here is the corresponding files dumpd from Z9S:

* [dvrboot.exe.bin](/assets/files/z9s_dvrboot.exe.bin)
* [hwsetting.config](/assets/files/z9s_hwsetting.config)
* [hwsetting.bin](/assets/files/z9s_hwsetting.bin)


## Flash by USB

Refer [https://www.cnx-software.com/2017/03/16/how-to-reinstall-android-firmware-on-realtek-rtd1295-tv-boxes/](https://www.cnx-software.com/2017/03/16/how-to-reinstall-android-firmware-on-realtek-rtd1295-tv-boxes/)

I don't have tried it, it may not works in Z9S.


## Attachments：

* [Realtek UBoot Document](/assets/files/RTD1619_RTD129x_Bootcode.pdf)
* [udisk_recovery.zip](/assets/files/udisk_recovery.zip)
* [z9s_dvrboot.exe.bin](/assets/files/z9s_dvrboot.exe.bin)
* [z9s_hwsetting.config](/assets/files/z9s_hwsetting.config)
* [z9s_hwsetting.bin](/assets/files/z9s_hwsetting.bin)
